i  do still elector at university around the corner here not the university
and  the subject of the
talk
and  were doing a live stream water this moment and somebody just as
think
paying  money to
it  was like a why would just talkin about that i was just round the corner because one of the things a kind of
open  the lecture with and i came back to again and again as a late
education
we  use
do  you
the  educational methods we
not
and  in fact
this  last scientific fact we can prove that the word not a
kick  us off here in china
pretty  much every one you
english  language education fourteen years now course people would drop out of school entirely didn't
get  forty so if you omobono somebody dropped at a school to work in the coal mines
or  maybe to be tending the army when they were really young maybe they only got
you  know some people don't go to school at all in china that does
a  poor
but  basically everyone you meet in the city you graduated from
he  fears to delercate
that's  years attached and
she  stokeses together when i sir i don't want to
this  is this is a wide difficult
in  a
anyway  i there's a little bit of a couple of my students they sat there and count
they  had over
you  know years and years hence and i did look up a study the
study  where researchers sat in the classroom
how  much time
this  is an empirical measure
there
and  they said that ten per cent of the budget temper sent of the
have  the budget time you've located in
was  being used
so  english topics than of temper
were  temperament or put it in a temper of our
there  was a
so  that's a huge huge investment and it doesn't work
it's  not like we're seeing there's a percent failure rate i'm saying there's percent failure
ate  almost nobody learns english this
and  the inversion thing that if you like that over and look at english speakers learning
he  got similar rates of failure
scientific  evidence the
well  real quick example oi've known for
and  i have looked up for
i  don't reminders that the back
do  not
period  now whether or not there's an exception
is  worth investigating
because  those are the lang
badly  adapted
greco  latin education system
that's  being used to
and  if being like us standing which is like sand gray also
indian  languages so covered a large
but  i'm not joking when i say it does not work at so you can prove you confer
and  a lot of money and it's a lot of time you know
sure
sure  i
yes
and  they don't but they will be osiris were fluting that for the debauching and talkin bout
menesee  talking about the obedient you know you do see here is that the kids
know  nothing wished to play video
they  know nothing is to use her computer
but  no they don't they can't say
ringan
well  but vice versa on the west it if you're talking about learning
radio  the language in a university
you  can be pain
and  it's not effective we can do quantitative measures with
scientifically  verifiable objective measures showing that it doesn't work
you  just spent twenty thousand dollars and you did not get a thousand dollars of laureat to it does does of
esbly  this is this is really a serious
so  when i want to mention in totally was that you know even though i know from any
an  endemic
and  a verifiable proven probe
in  the university class sitting i thought thus army
i  thought there was a better system
inside  the american
for  how they train
because  they have a huge
and  they also have much more
back  in the day i go i google ad a little bit and i found a few different first
pardon  me how language
so  the first things that potholes and that assumption a persius assumed is okay the army probably
has  a standard of
for  language tears
that  universities govern from more than even we as teacher
i  know there were actually let a complaint in the british
the  british secret service in the british military they said the
there  were saying lo we're working with the americans
the  american side
the  document
about  the youths is beyond anything this is this is
talking  about the specialists who
you  know this is about normal soldiers and this is guys in the stealthily placed people a
right  but they were talking about they were tutelage deficits
level  and they were saying look the people
trained  by the use
they're  not actually coming up with the ability
he
so  that was an i conversation so maybe you know maybe i've been too
generous
the  worst about the sermon and i looked into it a bit more
long  story short
language  training even with the
even  we have unlimited budgets and really unlimited control of the
it  doesn't you know what doesn't
so  luck combat liturgies
well  if it really interesting
everything  is
so  i am having this conversation with you
as  the ecology the fabric of our lives the rhythm and
peace  of our lives has been changed
i  still washed dishes the
i  still use his soap and anna and a sponge
i  still was dishes the same way people did it
but  we are still teaching languages the same way as
we  haven't made the necessary change have an even as the
and  let me assure you when you confront professor in university of
when  you try to deal with this stuff that people up close to say their reluctant
to  acknowledge there's a problem is another statement
there's  really a lot of sleep walking there's really a lot of the
university  of ministers professors do not want to add
that  they are twenty thousand dollars they ourselves when they are selling something at a very high
price
not  compete
you  know it
self  stay at home do books or just flying to a country and going on vacation
on  i'm not saying there are good methods they're not they're lousy but really lousy
methods  like
quantitative  empirical re
can  actually
compare  very favorably i can do better than
students
sitting  at desks
filling  out photocopy
listening  to
recorded
that  set of method
most  fundamental based on the glorification
it's  a modern western academic
the  highest form of an
his
you  get when you pay for the
you  get some one lecture you but the phi
but  in terms of the four fundamental
reading
when  i was a university of vitoria and i documented all this and i turned it in a
i  counted exactly the number of minutes
four  year class intensive
i  spoke
in  the final
there  was no other time there weren't even five minutes
ever
a  year of intensive very expensive in
i  spoke for a minute
so  i'm a noseless one example i could i could start
but  the system is
and  now i can't see that about how
my  field
i  can't see that out how biochemistry is
which  may be we got a biochemist and the
but  you know that may be another's if i don't know you know i'm not i'm not a bit comment i think some
people  feel that way but how like mat is to in schools the like a signal of people say like about the american school
certain  percent
a  recent
it's  a minority but the
to  work for
but  with language education were not talking about a percent
we're  talking about look at ninety eight
and  that's true of chinese people learning in ghisele an
and  i think you could also say
we  have mandatory student is
so  many hours
and  what presents to people are products of that
even  the ones who do
they  almost always have a story you know they had a girl friend
in  kibarty know some story for how and why they learn
you  know their airplane crash and a forest in northern camberton they got a job
in
it  whatever it was you know for some reason or other uncle spoke
died  and they were raised by their uncle but like really might be they didn't learn in school
right  right it is that the failure rates
writing  france right as your soul to be bilingual recant so the
efficacy  of those language
is  amazingly slow and again this is real quantities social social
compare  it to the type of education
one  grandparent
to  the
as  a really hard questions i got an easy question from the audience the question was is it worth
it  is it worth the money to learn a language
and  the answer is absolute
absolutely  not and i think most people the graduate love the very cynical about it either with a language
like  sam
even  with a language like ancient great
they  tell you now wear the language first
do  all the work alone then come into the university gate correct credit
just  come in to get rubber
when  you don't expect any one
language  education
modern  must be
if  somebody asked me how to earn a shanesville alone
said  should they pay tens of thousands of dollars to study
i'm  forgetting it something like university was
but  there is one university in thus as a center where they do lothian canadium with their specialized
alleestrasse
so  expensive it makes you want to weep you know when i'd say no take the ten thousand dollars
alteration  a business alone open of began pancake sharp and
loud  talk to your employees every day than they have they have no choice talk about pancakes every day practice
the  language was seriously for that amount of money you could open a business and
not  just going
so  expensive ones but then then when you meet the credential
returned  to
of  ironies
i  can't even get the credential because i'm ladin citizen i come from a third rate country with a fourth rate
system  education but if i were french grey
citizen  i would be capable
so  i will do a separate video talkin of a p
that  the answer that question and looked guides social sciences are real
and  i hope moving forward mataiasi which science and
change  our lives and
i  hope we can also progress
in  taking seriously the diagnoses of
science  offers when you have quantitative fact
teaching  english this way doesn't work teaching french this wets more teaching chinese this way is more than you can respond to it
in  the medical science well if there's one thing the medical science as have in common with the
the  diagnosis
diagnosing
so  there is no cure but if you don't know what the problem is if you don't know what the disease is then there's no
chance  you're going to solve it or it's quite possibly
worse